>> Kent C Dodds: That is ESLint.
There are more things about ESLints.
Like I said, I'm not giving an exhaustive
list of every feature of these tools.
But hopefully you can take that back or
like, you're learning back to you
teams and improve the code quality of
your projects with the ESLint.
And lots of the same
concepts apply with Babel.
It's just a couple of differences
in the API, and Babel you'll find
is a lot more powerful, especially with
regard to actually manipulating the AST.
So let's close my Twitter and stuff.
And let's see, we have slides over here.
Okay, so let's look at a Babel example,
Babel plugin.
>> Kent C Dodds: So right here,
we have, I'm in AST Explorer, and
when you go into AST Explorer again,
you'll wanna switch from
the espree parser to babylon6, and
your transform will be babelv7,
or sorry, v6, v7 is not out yet.
And with that, you'll be presented with
kind of a default that will plug in and
some code,
yours won't look exactly like this.
So I've got some code here,
I have this git version from a where
I pass a version string, like 3.4.5.
And I expect to get a major
minor in patch here, and
you probably wouldn't actually
want to do this in real life.
But what were going to do is anytime that
I have a RegExpLiteral inside of a loop or
inside of a function somewhere,
I just think to myself,
wouldn't it be nice if I just had it up
there, then I don't have to reallocate
memory every single time I call that
function or something like that.
I expect that JavaScript engines
are smart enough to basically do that for
you under the hood.
But there are some things that JavaScript
engines can't determine statically that we
could that could library-specific like if
you call this function a million times,
it's always gonna give
you the same thing back.
And so you cache that in some way or
something.
Or evaluate it or something.
So, anyway, the idea of hoisting stuff,
though, is not near like React.
There's a plugin for React that will
hoist your JSX that's not dynamic to,
say if I were to do a little
better performance.
So anyway, we're gonna just write a little
plugin that will hoist any reject or
reject p literal to like
the read of our program, and
make sure that it doesn't conflict with
any variables or anything like that.
So let's look at a couple of
the differences of the API.
Before we did module.exports,
now we're doing export default.
So as I mentioned earlier, your Babel
plugins will be transpiled by Babel.
And so you can use whatever you want.
And I'm 99% confident that
the way it's transpiled is
based off of your configuration
in your projects.
So you can use whatever your project's
configured with the Babel RC.
So for us, we can use CSS modules.
Another difference is instead of exporting
an object that has metadata on it and
stuff, you're exporting a function.
And this function returns an object
that has some metadata on it.
And one of those
properties is the visitor.
Similar to ESLint,
you do provide a function that
they call with a utility library.
And ESM provides context and
Babel provides Babel, and this is actually
the same thing that you would get
if you were to require Babel Core.
So these are the exactly the same.
One thing that's really common to use
from Babel Core is Babel Types, and
I'm gonna get the documentation for
this in the chat,
because it is really, really useful.
And this is enormous, but
it lists not all but most of the,
well, it lists out all of the node
types that Babel supports and
many of the functions
that you can call on this
babel.types, which we're destructuring and
assigning to t.
That's a really common thing to just
assign babel types to t in your plug-ins.
And we'll definitely be using those.
And then you can provide a name,
it's not required.
And then this is your visitor.
From visitor on down,
there's only one other slight difference.
Everything else is just nodes and
things, so.
Well, two slight differences, and
we'll see both of those later.
Well, actually we'll see
one of them right now.
So the first one,
we're gonna be wanting to hoist, or
any RegExpLiteral we find,
we wanna hoist it to the top.
And so
I'm gonna create a visitor for that.
And with ESLint, this visitor would
be passed the node, but with Babel,
this is passed the path.
And the path is a special object
that has a lot of context and
a lot of utilities on it.
So let's go ahead and console log that.
So the path has a ton of and
really I don't even know what
hub even means, or data.
Lots of this stuff I haven't even
bumped into because it's just so
full featured, it has so much stuff on it.
We'll be looking at Scope eventually.
Scope is similar to that get
declared variables thing where it'll
give us some scope of our variables.
It does have access to the node.
So this node here is what
we would get in ESLint so
instead of just getting the node,
we get a path that has a node.
And we'll definitely be referencing this.
And then if you look at
the prototype of the path,
it has tons of utility methods on it.
And many of these, actually,
are the same that you have from types,
except these will be
evaluated on the path, so
if I say path.isClassProperty,
that'll tell me whether or
not this path that I
have is a class property.
Yeah, who would've thought there was so
much stuff in JavaScript.
There it is.
Lot of node types.
And then you also have a parent here,
and this is the parent node.
But if you want to have all this
context and stuff for the parent node,
then you would look at the parent path.
And you can keep going up
in the parent path chain.
Yeah, I think that pretty much explores
most of the differences in the APIs.
Anybody have questions about
differences in ESLint versus Babel?
Okay, cool.
Yeah, lots of the knowledge is
transferable, which is nice.
So yeah, what we want to do is
find any RegExp that is a RegExp literal,
and we found it here.
We could potentially
have a situation where
something that's not assigned to any
variable, and we could probably hoist that
But we'll just skip over that for now.
You've seen how we can solidify things a
little bit further, but we'll not do that.
Okay, so we want to get a couple of
things off of this path, and because,
what we need to do, if we were to do this
manually ourselves, well what do we do?
We would say, okay, I'm gonna copy this,
I'll paste it up here, and just in case
there was some other version RegEx in this
scope, I'm gonna give this a unique name.
I'll say _versionRegEx, okay,
now it has a unique name.
And then I'm going to go
down back in here, and
I'm going to find any instance of
where versionRegEx was being used.
And I'll replace it with my new
one that's at the root scope, and
then I'll remove the declaration
of that variable.
So that is kind of the process
that we want to do,
just automatically using Babel.
So let's first generate, or let's see.
Yeah, let's first generate the new
identifier, the unique identifier, for
our new variable that we're gonna create.
And to do that we're going
to get a new identifier.
And we need to get a new identifier
that's unique to the whole program
as well as, yeah, so yeah.
So we need to be able to somehow get
a reference to the whole program so
that we don't conflict with any other
variables that exist in the program.
But in addition to that, it also
needs to be unique to this function.
So let's say we had a, well you'll see
why that's important here in a second.
So we're going to take the path,
>> Kent C Dodds: And
we're going to use that scope property
that we were looking at earlier.
And we're gonna ask the scope
to generate a NewUidIdentifier,
and I think I'm spelling something wrong.
Yeah, it's not new,
it's just generateUidIdentifier.
Then if we console.log the newIdentifier,
then we're gonna see an object,
and this is a node.
Its type is identifier,
its name is temp, _temp.
And if we actually look
at our node types here,
this is type is identifier,
the name is versionRegEx.
It has a couple extra properties,
but for all intents and purposes,
other than those location
in the code properties,
what we just created with this generate
UID identifier is exactly the same.
It is an identifier node,
it's what we made.
Okay, great.
But _temp isn't very useful if
we're looking in our debugging or
something like that.
So it is nice to be able to give it
some sort of name to base things off of.
So I'll just say hi really quick.
And it's gonna base its generated
ID off of what I provide.
So let's go ahead and
get the name of this declared variable.
So let's console log the path.
And we'll see if we look at the parent,
that's our variable declarator.
And look at the ID is gonna be our
identifier which has the name.
So we'll say path.parent.id.name,
and that is the version RegEx that we
want to use to generate our identifier.
Great, so
now we've generated a unique identifier.
And,
>> Kent C Dodds: [SOUND]
This is hard because small screens.
If we had a versionRegex here,
then it's gonna create a versionRegex2.
So that's one really really
handy things about Babel,
is that it's able to understand the whole
scope of the program statically so
that it doesn't generate any code for
us that's broken.
Okay cool.
So we have an identifier.
Now we need to basically take this node
and move it because here we're not
just inspecting things,
we're actually making things and
moving things and removing things,
manipulating this AST.
>> Kent C Dodds: So let's go ahead and
we'll take this new identifier and
basically make a variable
declaration out of it.
>> Kent C Dodds: So
if we look at this versionRegex,
that's a variable declarator, and
we have a variable declaration.
So how do we create a new
variable declaration?
This is where types come in.
So Babel types allows
us to create new nodes.
So we're gonna see our
VariableDeclaration =
t.variableDeclaration, Declaration, okay.
Now this is where you can look in
the docs and see what that does.
VariableDeclaration,
>> Kent C Dodds: And
this is the API.
You pass in a kind, so var, let, or const,
and then you pass in your declarations.
It's an array of variable declarators.
And the t.variableDeclarators, here we go,
that's how you create
a variableDeclarator,
you give it an identifier and an init.
So what to initialize it to,
an expression to initialize this, so
the right side of the equal sign.
So let's go ahead and do that.
The kind that we want,
we'll just start with const here.
And we could expand this further to say,
okay,
I want to use the same one that
the original variable was declared as,
and we can do that here in a little bit.
And yeah, then we'll pass
an array of variable declarators,
so t.variableDeclarator.
And that is gonna take our new identifier
that we just created and an expression.
So I'll just do one really quick and
than we can do a real one.
So a t.string literal high,
and I think missing, yeah.
Okay, so then we have this variable
declaration that's console.logthat.
>> Kent C Dodds: And
see what we're looking at.
So we still haven't
actually manipulated data.
See, we're just, based off the AST we're
generating some new nodes ourselves.
So we have this variable declaration,
it is a constavariable declaration,
it has a few declarations.
And we have an init, and we have an id,
so we've created a node, cool.
So how do we manipulate a JavaScript AST?
Well you kind of just manipulate it.
So where we wanna put
this is in our program.
So we need to find that program node, and
we need to stick something into its body.
And we'll just stick it right at the top.
So let's find that program node.
One of the cool things that the path
allows us to do is find a parent.
And this takes a function so,
which it calls on every parent.
It's very much like jQuery, where you
can find dom notes further up the tree.
We can say t.isProgram(parent), and
this will find us the parent node,
so const program,
the parent node that is the program,
console.log(program).
We found it, hooray!
So just as kind of a shortcut,
because t.isProgram just
accepts a parent parameter.
You'll often see code that
just looks like this.
So find me the parent that isProgram.
>> Kent C Dodds: So we found the program,
now if we look at the program.node.body,
that's gonna be our array
that has all of our entries.
Or all of our code, and we want to
tack something onto the front of it,
and it's just an array.
So how do you tack something
onto the front of an array?
If you're gonna put something on the back,
you push,
on the front it is-
>> Class: Unshift.
>> Kent C Dodds: Unshift, exactly.
Yep, so we will say unshift,
and what are we unshifting?
This variable declaration we just created.
So now if we look we've
actually manipulated the ISD.
Ta-da!
That's cool, but
is not what we want quite yet,
so let's go ahead and
take this a step further.
We can take this version regex and
the parent is the original
variable declarator so
we'll say path.parentPath.remove
we want it out, it's gone.
>> Kent C Dodds: But there's still
two important things missing,
the one that we're creating
isn't the redjacks.
And all the references aren't being
updated to our new variable name.
So let's fix those things really quick.
>> Kent C Dodds: We'll
do the renaming first.
We'll say path.scope.rename.
So and lots of these things,
I'll show you, there's the Babel handbook.
I'll just copy that
over here really quick.
>> Kent C Dodds: Common things like rename
and findParent, and some of these things.
Over time,
you'll learn about these things.
And the Babel handbook has a lot of these,
but something
I find something really useful is just to
log it, and then look at the prototype.
And just read the functions, and
then if it looks interesting,
I'll go try and
find some docs or something.
But rename is one thing that you can
do and it's super duper awesome.
And I'm gonna actually
rename all instances
of our version regex
name to something else.
So first let me take this and
make this a variable.
And then I'm gonna rename all instances of
that name, with our newIdentifier.name.
>> Kent C Dodds: And you can't see that
because we commented that out but,
we leave that where it is.
It is our new name.
Both the exec and the instantiation.
Pretty cool, so
we just have one thing left right?
Just need to initialize this with the same
thing that's with our original reg XP.
And we can actually do that pretty easily
because the reg XP is what we're visiting,
so we just say path.note.
>> Kent C Dodds: And now this code
functions basically the same, except for
the fact that I recently found
out exec is stateful and,
yeah, keeps track of when it was called.
And if you call it once with one thing and
then call it again with something else,
I'm pretty sure it returns
where the one thing was.
It's weird, JavaScript,
it's kind of funny stuff.
So instead you might do something like
test or matches or something like that.
But anyway, yeah, we've written
Babel plugin that hoists our regex.
And it wasn't the most terrible
experience of our lives right?
It was better than visiting
the dentist hopefully?
So just to recap on things,
differences from ESLint,
you're exporting a function,
not an object.
That function accepts
the Babel core object.
The Babel core has a bunch of
things on it that are useful, and
one of those things is types.
You use that quite often
to create new nodes and
to test whether nodes are what you expect.
And then what you return from
that function, I don't need this.
What you return from that function
is a name for your plugin,
and I think that's for
debugging purposes, and visitor object.
And from there, it's pretty much the same
except instead of a node, you get a path.
And that path has a ton of
useful functions you can call.